{{{ "title" : "Only Two Rides Since My Last Post", "tags" : [ "bicycling" ], "category" : "bicycling", "date" : "2010-04-23 22:49:09" }}}

<div>\n\nI haven''t made much time for riding so far.  We had a cookout last weekend, and I spent most of my time preparing--but it was fun, and the first time we''ve invited people over to our new place for a get-together.  I also had to work that weekend.\n\nBut no excuses.  The days have gotten long enough for some nice rides after work, and the weather has been good.\n\nHowever... the two rides I did take were fun and I''m looking forward to many more before heading through the dreaded tunnel of winter once again.\n\nThe first ride I took on the previous weekend (to the cookout) and it was fairly long for the shape I''m in.  I was exhausted when I got home, even though I took it easy.   Let''s see if I can remember how to add the map to my blog post...  [iframe http://js.mapmyfitness.com/embed/blogview.html?r=878c9721b9c268b88ea921de1a4365ae&amp;u=e&amp;t=ride 350 500]\n\nI didn''t plan my route, but ended up taking mostly known roads.  It was very enjoyable with some time to myself and my podcasts (one of which was some commentary and listeners'' responses about the safety of using headphones while cycling on <a href="http://www.thefredcast.com/" target="_self">The Fredcast</a>.  I''ll have to post my views on the subject one of these days.)\n\nI took a route with a few climbs.  I was worried how I would do, but was pleased with myself afterwards.  I''m out of shape and far too heavy but I still climb much better than I did this time last year--even though I was riding my mountain bike with its super-easy gearing last year.\n\nThere were only two notable events, one nice and one not so nice.  The first was when I arrived at the Sonic on Walton to refill my water.  This particular Sonic doesn''t have any seating out front like every other Sonic I''ve been to.  So I pulled up at a car stall in back and placed my order.  A few minutes later a couple of other cyclists pulled into a nearby stall.  They had nice equipment, but didn''t seem to be the more hardcore road cyclists I usually pass.  It looked to be a family out for a ride, and they even had a baby riding along in a seat on the back of one of the bikes.  I thought it was fantastic and, in my mind at least, they were having a great time.\n\nThe second event was not so pleasant.  I was heading back home on Hwy 72 when I was buzzed by some guys in a pickup truck.  One leaned out the window and threw water on me, hitting me pretty good in the face.  He had good aim, and if it wasn''t such a shitty thing to do to someone I''d have admired the shot.  Instead I flipped them off and kept motioning for them to come back.  They were too cowardly to stop and defend whatever it was they were trying to do, which didn''t surprise me.  I didn''t let it spoil my ride or my day, but it did piss me off.\n\nThe next ride I took was after work one day.   Nothing much to say about it at all, except that it was a level ride and that I was trying to scout out a good ''after work'' ride.  I ended up back at home within an hour, and although I wasn''t quite ready to stop it was getting a little too late to continue.\n\n[iframe http://js.mapmyfitness.com/embed/blogview.html?r=f0de8aab0099c32f2e4e1021de3423f3&amp;u=e&amp;t=ride 350 500]</div>